install/index.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Installation
---

Installation
============

General notes
-------------

MapIt currently uses Postgres/PostGIS as its database backend &ndash; there's no
reason  why e.g. SpatiaLite could not be used successfully, but it has never
been tried.

To install GeoDjango and PostGIS, please follow all the standard instructions
(including creating the template) over on the Django site at
<http://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/ref/contrib/gis/install/#ubuntudebian>.
And anything else you need to set up Django as normal.

\[ Note for UK/Ireland: Not only is the PostGIS that is installed missing SRID
900913, as the GeoDjango docs tell you, but both SRID 27700 (British National
Grid) and SRID 29902 (Irish National Grid) can be incorrect (and they're quite
important for this application!). After you've installed and got a PostGIS
template, log in to it and update the proj4text column of SRID 27700 to include
+datum=OSGB36, and update SRID 29902 to have +datum=ire65. This may not be
necessary, depending on your version of PostGIS, but do check. \]

You will also need a couple of other Debian packages, so install them:

    sudo apt-get install python-yaml memcached python-memcache git-core

You will also need to be using South to manage schema migrations.

Installation as a Django app
----------------------------

As mapit is a Django app, if you are making a GeoDjango project you can simply
use mapit from within your project like any normal Django app:

* Make sure it is on `sys.path` (a packaged install e.g. with `pip
  install django-mapit` does this for you);
* Add `mapit` and `django.contrib.gis` to your `INSTALLED_APPS`;
* Add the following settings to `settings.py`:

  * `MAPIT_AREA_SRID` &ndash; the SRID of your area data (if in doubt, set to
    `4326`)
  * `MAPIT_COUNTRY` &ndash; used to supply country specific functions (such
    as postcode validation). If you look at the country files in
    `mapit/countries/` you can see how to add specialised
    country-specific functions.
  * `MAPIT_RATE_LIMIT` &ndash; a list of IP addresses or User Agents excluded
    from rate limiting

* Set up a path in your main `urls.py` to point at `mapit.urls`.
* run `./manage.py syncdb` and `./manage.py migrate` to ensure the db
  is set up

Installation standalone with the example project
------------------------------------------------

A standard git clone will get you the repository:

    git clone git://github.com/mysociety/mapit.git

Now in a terminal, navigate to the mapit directory you've just cloned.

Copy `conf/general.yml-example` to `conf/general.yml` and edit it to point
to your local postgresql database, and edit the other settings as per the
documentation given in that file. If you don't know what `SRID` to use,
delete that line or set it to `4326`. `COUNTRY` is used for e.g. differing
sorts of postcode (zipcode) validation &ndash; if you look at the country files in
`mapit/countries/` you can see how to add specialised country-specific
functions to validate postcodes etc.

If you're going to be importing big datasets, make sure that `DEBUG` is
`False`; otherwise, you'll run out of memory as it tries to remember all the
SQL queries made.

Optionally, also turn off `escape_string_warning` in Postgres' config (unless
you want your server to run out of disc space logging all the errors, as ours
did the first time I imported overnight and didn't realise).

At this stage, you should be able to set up the database and run the
development server. Do add an admin user when prompted:

{% highlight bash %}
cd project

# Optionally set up a virtual environment and install requirements
virtualenv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt

# generate the css from the sass
../bin/make_css

# Setup django install
./manage.py syncdb
./manage.py migrate mapit

# run dev server
./manage.py runserver
{% endhighlight %}

(Alternatively, set up a live web server however you wish &ndash; see the Deployment
Django documentation for details beyond the scope of this document. Remember to
run `./manage.py collectstatic` too if running Django >= 1.3.)

You can then visit <http://localhost:8000/> and hopefully see the default MapIt
homepage. <http://localhost:8000/admin/> should show the admin interface.

This is enough to have a working site. You can create areas and postcodes using
the admin interface and they will automatically work in the API-based front
end.

However, if you have some bulk data you wish to import (which will make setup
easier), you will need to import this data into MapIt. Now see the section
on [importing data](../import/).

Commit message:

Add instructions for the AMI and install script

install/index.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Installation
---

Installation
============

There are several options for installing MapIt.  The rest of this page
describes how to do this manually, for people who are used to setting
up web applications, but there are two other options that may be
easier:

* [A MapIt AMI for Amazon EC2](ami)
* [An install script for Debian squeeze or Ubuntu precise servers](install-script)

If you prefer to set up each required component of MapIt yourself,
proceed with the instructions below.

General notes
-------------

MapIt currently uses Postgres/PostGIS as its database backend &ndash; there's no
reason  why e.g. SpatiaLite could not be used successfully, but it has never
been tried.

To install GeoDjango and PostGIS, please follow all the standard instructions
(including creating the template) over on the Django site at
<http://docs.djangoproject.com/en/dev/ref/contrib/gis/install/#ubuntudebian>.
And anything else you need to set up Django as normal.

\[ Note for UK/Ireland: Not only is the PostGIS that is installed missing SRID
900913, as the GeoDjango docs tell you, but both SRID 27700 (British National
Grid) and SRID 29902 (Irish National Grid) can be incorrect (and they're quite
important for this application!). After you've installed and got a PostGIS
template, log in to it and update the proj4text column of SRID 27700 to include
+datum=OSGB36, and update SRID 29902 to have +datum=ire65. This may not be
necessary, depending on your version of PostGIS, but do check. \]

You will also need a couple of other Debian packages, so install them:

    sudo apt-get install python-yaml memcached python-memcache git-core

You will also need to be using South to manage schema migrations.

Installation as a Django app
----------------------------

As mapit is a Django app, if you are making a GeoDjango project you can simply
use mapit from within your project like any normal Django app:

* Make sure it is on `sys.path` (a packaged install e.g. with `pip
  install django-mapit` does this for you);
* Add `mapit` and `django.contrib.gis` to your `INSTALLED_APPS`;
* Add the following settings to `settings.py`:

  * `MAPIT_AREA_SRID` &ndash; the SRID of your area data (if in doubt, set to
    `4326`)
  * `MAPIT_COUNTRY` &ndash; used to supply country specific functions (such
    as postcode validation). If you look at the country files in
    `mapit/countries/` you can see how to add specialised
    country-specific functions.
  * `MAPIT_RATE_LIMIT` &ndash; a list of IP addresses or User Agents excluded
    from rate limiting

* Set up a path in your main `urls.py` to point at `mapit.urls`.
* run `./manage.py syncdb` and `./manage.py migrate` to ensure the db
  is set up

Installation standalone with the example project
------------------------------------------------

A standard git clone will get you the repository:

    git clone git://github.com/mysociety/mapit.git

Now in a terminal, navigate to the mapit directory you've just cloned.

Copy `conf/general.yml-example` to `conf/general.yml` and edit it to point
to your local postgresql database, and edit the other settings as per the
documentation given in that file. If you don't know what `SRID` to use,
delete that line or set it to `4326`. `COUNTRY` is used for e.g. differing
sorts of postcode (zipcode) validation &ndash; if you look at the country files in
`mapit/countries/` you can see how to add specialised country-specific
functions to validate postcodes etc.

If you're going to be importing big datasets, make sure that `DEBUG` is
`False`; otherwise, you'll run out of memory as it tries to remember all the
SQL queries made.

Optionally, also turn off `escape_string_warning` in Postgres' config (unless
you want your server to run out of disc space logging all the errors, as ours
did the first time I imported overnight and didn't realise).

At this stage, you should be able to set up the database and run the
development server. Do add an admin user when prompted:

{% highlight bash %}
cd project

# Optionally set up a virtual environment and install requirements
virtualenv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt

# generate the css from the sass
../bin/make_css

# Setup django install
./manage.py syncdb
./manage.py migrate mapit

# run dev server
./manage.py runserver
{% endhighlight %}

(Alternatively, set up a live web server however you wish &ndash; see the Deployment
Django documentation for details beyond the scope of this document. Remember to
run `./manage.py collectstatic` too if running Django >= 1.3.)

You can then visit <http://localhost:8000/> and hopefully see the default MapIt
homepage. <http://localhost:8000/admin/> should show the admin interface.

This is enough to have a working site. You can create areas and postcodes using
the admin interface and they will automatically work in the API-based front
end.

However, if you have some bulk data you wish to import (which will make setup
easier), you will need to import this data into MapIt. Now see the section
on [importing data](../import/).
