docs/import-from-gadm.rst, before:

Importing boundaries from GADM.org
==================================

`GADM <http://www.gadm.org/>`_ is a database of administrative areas from around
the world. If you are setting up a MapIt for your country then it is likely that
this is a good starting point. At mySociety it is what we used for Kenya and
Nigeria.

Note that the GADM data is freely available for academic and other
non-commercial use. Redistribution, or commercial use, is not allowed without
prior permission from them.

These are step by step instructions for loading all the areas for a country
(we'll use Nigeria) into MapIt:


Find and download the boundaries
--------------------------------

1) Go to the download page: http://www.gadm.org/country
2) Select the country (in our case Nigeria)
3) Select the "Google Earth .kmz" format
4) Click "OK" to show the available downloads
5) Download all the "levels" to your computer - for Nigeria there are levels 0, 1 and 2.


Preview the downloaded files
----------------------------

Once the data files have been downloaded you can use the free Google Earth software to view the boundaries. It is available for download from: http://www.google.com/earth/explore/products/desktop.html


Prepare the files for import
----------------------------

1) Collect all your files in one folder - we'll use ``/tmp/gadm_data``
2) Convert the files to kml (kmz is just kml gzipped):

::

    cd /tmp/gadm_data
    
    # decompress all the kmz files
    unzip '*.kmz'


Work out the area types you'll need
-----------------------------------

There will be several different types of area you'll want to store. For example
there will be the country boundary, and there may also be states or counties.
Look in the kml files to find the different areas represented there.

This command will list them all:

::

    grep '<description>' *.kml | sort | uniq -c | grep -v 'href='

For the Nigerian kml files we get this output:

::

       1 NGA_adm0.kml:<description><![CDATA[NGA]]></description>
      37 NGA_adm1.kml:<description><![CDATA[State]]></description>
       1 NGA_adm1.kml:<description><![CDATA[Water body]]></description>
     775 NGA_adm2.kml:<description><![CDATA[Local Authority]]></description>

The bit we're looking for is in the ``CDATA[[...]]`` block. The number at the
start of the line in the number of occurrences.

Note that there is a single 'Water Body' in one of the kml files - using a text
editor we'll remove that manually as it is not relevant to us. This is done by
finding the 'Water body' text and then deleting everything from and including
the '<Placemark>' before it and up to and including the closing '</Placemark>'
after it.

Alternatively you could import using the steps below and then find it in the
admin interface and delete it.


Prepare the MapIt install for the import
----------------------------------------

We'll assume that you are using a locally running instance of MapIt. If not please change the URLs to match your setup.

1) Install MapIt as per the instructions in ``INSTALL.rst``
2) Start the dev server and go to the admin pages: http://127.0.0.1:8000/admin
3) We're assuming that you database is empty. If this is not the case you may 
   have some conflicts.
4) Add your country - for us 'Nigeria' with code 'N'.
5) Add a name type - we'll use 'gadm' and 'GADM English Name'
6) Add a generation - we'll use 'GADM version 2.0' and leave in inactive for now
7) Add the appropriate area types (under 'Types') - for Nigeria we added Country 
   (CTR), State (STA) and Local Government Area (LGA). You may need to choose 
   different areas.

Import the kml
--------------

There is an import script that will look at the kml file and create entries from
it. We'll call it as follows:

::

    ./manage.py mapit_import_kml     \
        --country_code    N          \
        --generation_id   1          \
        --area_type_code  CTR        \
        --name_type_code  gadm       \
        --commit                     \
        /tmp/gadm_data/NGA_adm0.kml


Repeat the above line for all your data files changing the path to the file and
the ``--area_type_code`` to suit your import.

If you want to try the import without committing to the database don't specify
the ``--commit`` switch.

Commit message:

Add note to activate generation after the imports are complete

docs/import-from-gadm.rst, after:

Importing boundaries from GADM.org
==================================

`GADM <http://www.gadm.org/>`_ is a database of administrative areas from around
the world. If you are setting up a MapIt for your country then it is likely that
this is a good starting point. At mySociety it is what we used for Kenya and
Nigeria.

Note that the GADM data is freely available for academic and other
non-commercial use. Redistribution, or commercial use, is not allowed without
prior permission from them.

These are step by step instructions for loading all the areas for a country
(we'll use Nigeria) into MapIt:


Find and download the boundaries
--------------------------------

1) Go to the download page: http://www.gadm.org/country
2) Select the country (in our case Nigeria)
3) Select the "Google Earth .kmz" format
4) Click "OK" to show the available downloads
5) Download all the "levels" to your computer - for Nigeria there are levels 0, 1 and 2.


Preview the downloaded files
----------------------------

Once the data files have been downloaded you can use the free Google Earth software to view the boundaries. It is available for download from: http://www.google.com/earth/explore/products/desktop.html


Prepare the files for import
----------------------------

1) Collect all your files in one folder - we'll use ``/tmp/gadm_data``
2) Convert the files to kml (kmz is just kml gzipped):

::

    cd /tmp/gadm_data
    
    # decompress all the kmz files
    unzip '*.kmz'


Work out the area types you'll need
-----------------------------------

There will be several different types of area you'll want to store. For example
there will be the country boundary, and there may also be states or counties.
Look in the kml files to find the different areas represented there.

This command will list them all:

::

    grep '<description>' *.kml | sort | uniq -c | grep -v 'href='

For the Nigerian kml files we get this output:

::

       1 NGA_adm0.kml:<description><![CDATA[NGA]]></description>
      37 NGA_adm1.kml:<description><![CDATA[State]]></description>
       1 NGA_adm1.kml:<description><![CDATA[Water body]]></description>
     775 NGA_adm2.kml:<description><![CDATA[Local Authority]]></description>

The bit we're looking for is in the ``CDATA[[...]]`` block. The number at the
start of the line in the number of occurrences.

Note that there is a single 'Water Body' in one of the kml files - using a text
editor we'll remove that manually as it is not relevant to us. This is done by
finding the 'Water body' text and then deleting everything from and including
the '<Placemark>' before it and up to and including the closing '</Placemark>'
after it.

Alternatively you could import using the steps below and then find it in the
admin interface and delete it.


Prepare the MapIt install for the import
----------------------------------------

We'll assume that you are using a locally running instance of MapIt. If not please change the URLs to match your setup.

1) Install MapIt as per the instructions in ``INSTALL.rst``
2) Start the dev server and go to the admin pages: http://127.0.0.1:8000/admin
3) We're assuming that you database is empty. If this is not the case you may 
   have some conflicts.
4) Add your country - for us 'Nigeria' with code 'N'.
5) Add a name type - we'll use 'gadm' and 'GADM English Name'
6) Add a generation - we'll use 'GADM version 2.0' and leave in inactive for now
7) Add the appropriate area types (under 'Types') - for Nigeria we added Country 
   (CTR), State (STA) and Local Government Area (LGA). You may need to choose 
   different areas.

Import the kml
--------------

There is an import script that will look at the kml file and create entries from
it. We'll call it as follows:

::

    ./manage.py mapit_import_kml     \
        --country_code    N          \
        --generation_id   1          \
        --area_type_code  CTR        \
        --name_type_code  gadm       \
        --commit                     \
        /tmp/gadm_data/NGA_adm0.kml


Repeat the above line for all your data files changing the path to the file and
the ``--area_type_code`` to suit your import. You may also need to use a different value for ``--generation_id`` if this is not a fresh MapIt install.

If you want to try the import without committing to the database don't specify
the ``--commit`` switch.


Activate the generation
-----------------------

Once you are happy that the data is correct activate the generation in the admin
interface.
